In the last lecture we added the scroll view and I mentioned that it's really only good for basically a
limited amount of elements because very long lists of elements which can even grow dynamically,
well these can lead to performance issues especially on slower devices.
So you want to have a solution that actually only renders what needs to be rendered,
so what's on the screen and dynamically renders new list items which are about to become active and
be visible
but also detaches items which are not needed to be rendered right now, so that you basically always
only render what you can see plus minus some elements on top or below it.
React native got a component which does just that,
it's called flat list, you
can find more about it of course in the official documentation
as always, there under components,
you'll find the flat list component. This is the ideal solution for pretty much all dynamic lists
you're going to render and of course you can find how it works in the documentation but we're also going
to dive into it together. To use flat list,
I will replace my scroll view with the flat list component, like this
and now I need change the way I output my list, I will no longer use place output and I will no longer manually
map my array,
instead the flat list component accepts a couple of properties which are useful.
The first useful property we can add to flat list is the data property, it's not only a useful one, it's
a required one.
Data has to be an array which will be used behind the scenes as a data source,
here this of course is props places because remember, our custom place list component receives a places
prop.
So this is the data source,
then you also need to tell flat list what should you do with this data source, for that it got the render
item prop
which takes some jsx code which it should render for each element in your data source.
So here that is just jsx, though to be precise,
it's a function which returns jsx,
we can use an inline arrow function or we could create a new function of course.
So here the inline arrow function should turns some jsx and the jsx should be list item, like that,
make sure to remove that semi-colon here.
So this is how we can use flat list but we're not entirely done,
the items in our data source actually need to have a key property, they need to be objects which have
a key property and then any other amount of properties. On the other hand,
we don't need to manage the key manually on the list item anymore and we could,
we don't have access to the index anymore because that's managed dynamically by flat list.
So we need to change our places data source,
it must no longer be an array of strings but an array of objects which fulfills this criteria of having
a key property,
so in the app container where we have our places array, when we add a new place, we no longer just concat the
place name but this could be stored in some value property, that name is totally up to you though, a
must is that you add a key property though which should be some unique key you add.
Now to get this here, I'll actually use math.random which is not entirely unique,
you could get the same number twice but here for demo purposes, it will suffice in a real application
and later in this course, you will obviously have some data source that has real unique IDs like a user
ID or something like that.
So let's save that, let's go back to our application and reload both lists here or both apps, let's add
Munich once here and you'll see I get an error here that we can't find the variable
place, that makes sense because if we have a look at the list item, there we want to output the place
name and in the place list here on the list item,
we try to pass place as the place name.
Now how do we get the real place name? Now here, this render item function that it is will actually give
us information about the item it's about to enter as an argument and there we get an info argument.
Now you can name this whatever you want but essentially it holds some infos about the item which is rendered
here, this is the item itself, the index and then also something about potential separators between
the items.
So on this info element, we can extract our item and then pass on the value as a place name, value
because in the app container where we add item, we store the place name we get in a value property on
that object,
so we have to retrieve it by that property.
If we now save this and save all files, if we reload our app and we now start adding a couple of Munichs again,
you see we output Munich here.
Now of course deleting an item will fail though because upon deleting,
we try to call onItemDeleted and pass the index i, now on the info element, we actually got the index
but better is to use the unique ID we got anyways,
so I can return info item key here.
Remember we do have a key because we also add this in the app container
and yes it's not entirely unique in our example but let's assume it is,
so now we can use the key to remove an item.
So here when we filter, we no longer use the index of the item we filter for
but instead we check if the place key,
so if the key of the place we're looking at here is equal to the key we get as an argument to place
delete handler,
the key we pass back from the render item method from the flat list,
it's not equal,
excuse me.
So if it is equal, we won't include it in the new array
hence deleting the item.
So if we now go back to our application and we again add a couple of Munichs, we get a scrollable list
but deleting items also works again,
now let's also use some other names like San Francisco and then New York to really prove that this is
the case so that you can really see that the right item gets deleted,
Munich, San Francisco, New York, that all works. And it should also work fine on Android,
just make sure to reload it there too, if you there add items, you can also delete them.
So this is flat list, your best solution for rendering lists which are dynamic and which can grow quite
big,
you can learn more about it in the official documentation and I also want to make you aware that there
also is section list, basically an alternative to flat list
if you also got sections in your list.
So if you got something like a settings list where you got general settings and then a couple of lists
items that belongs to that section and that you've got another section with a couple of list items,
then section list is pretty much working in the same way as flat list does
but it's able to handle a data source that knows sections
unlike flat list where our data source is just a one dimensional array.
This is flat list.